Prompt
~~~~~~

Suppose we discover a bug with our algorithm and investors for two deals had incorrect
allocations. This means that some of the investors ended up investing more than they were allowed to
while others invested less than they were allowed to. One of deals happened two years ago and the
other one happened two weeks ago. Please describe, in detail, how would you go about correcting this
issue and how would you communicate this to the affected customers.

Response
~~~~~~~~

First of all, since the issue is still left unfixed, all new deals should be manually double-checked
as a temporary measure to prevent further errors. Seeing that this bug has occurred only twice so far,
completely taking down the site is unnecessary. Business continuity should be maintained whenever possible.

To resolve this issue, I would first study the root cause and figure out what went wrong with
the algorithm. Peeking at the affected code may lead to some insight, followed by manual QA testing
and debugging with breakpoints. Once I have isolated the issue, I would share my findings in a Slack channel
and discuss possible solutions with my colleagues. While this bug should be addressed as soon as possible,
care must be taken to ensure that the proposed solution works as intended and does not introduce any further bugs.

These questions come to mind:

1. How big was the miscalculation? Is it a mere decimal place precision error?  For large investments
in millions, a few hundred or thousand dollars are negligible. (In reference to the prorated allocation,
a customer should never be shortchanged on actual money paid)

2. Were the numbers presented to the customers incorrectly correct? I.e., if they were supposed to be allocated $10,
but were allocated $15 instead. Did they see $15, pay $15, and end up receiving $15 worth of shares/ownership?

3. Is there a disclaimer in AngelList's T&C relevant to this situation? Are we legally liable and subject to litigation?

4. Do we have liability insurance? Is it still valid? Can it cover the full amount? If not, is it in our budget to compensate affected customers?

In the case of the 2 year old instance:

Assuming that the miscalculation was small, the customer received the correct amount they paid for, and that our
T&C has a relevant disclaimer, I would send them an email sharing our discovery of the error, apologize for the
mistake, and ask them to reach out if they would like to discuss it further. This way, if they are not disgruntled
to begin with, no further action is necessary.

For the 2 week old instance, I have an additional question:

1. Has the deal been finalized? Can it still be adjusted to correct the error?

If the amount involved is small, an email or a phone call may be adequate to communicate the error to the affected customers.
If it is large, an in-person visit may be more appropriate. I would try to make it right by adjusting the deal if it is still not finalized.
Otherwise, I would compensate the affected customers via a claim from our liability insurance.