Prompt
~~~~~~

An angry investor sent us a note about how they keep getting squeezed down to $25K per deal even
though their requested amount is $100K. Underneath the hood, this was because there's limited
allocation (low supply) and a high volume of investors looking to invest (high demand). How should
we communicate this to an investor in a way that minimizes the damage to our relationship with
the investor?

In addition, can you think of a better way we could change the proration basis logic so that
this could potentially happen less often?

Response
~~~~~~~~

Transparency is the best way to approach this. It looks like AngelList has help articles pertaining
to proration for founders but not investors: https://help.venture.angel.co/hc/en-us/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&query=prorate

I would suggest publishing a blog post that explains how the algorithm works in detail, and why
it is necessary to ensure fairness to all investors. Explain how the proration benefits the
investor by allowing them to invest in otherwise oversubscribed startups. The article could
include tips on how an investor could increase their allocated amount. For starters, they could
invest in startups with higher target amounts or choose startups that are less oversubscribed.
Not only will investors have the opportunity to invest more this way, this will also bump up their
historical average amount, which in turn will increase their future allocations as well. Futhermore,
we could suggest that the investor diversify their investments by investing in more startups.
Diversification lowers risk and prevents oversubscription to a single startup. It will also give
exposure and funding to lesser known or less popular startups.

The most important thing is to never assign blame, not to ourselves, the investor, or the startups.
The language used should be pleasant in tone, and professional. Avoid patronizing customers, do
not make it seem obvious why proration is needed, explain it in a way that's simple to understand
without making the customer feel ignorant. Empathize with the customer and validate their frustration.


At its core, the proration logic depends on the following variables:

1. How much allocation is available? - It's not as simple as increasing the available allocation,
as this may lead to overdilution of shares. Ultimately, this is the startup's decision and is difficult to influence.

2. How much does an investor want to invest? - We could limit the requested amount. This will avoid
disappointing the investor.

3. How much on average has the investor invested in the past? - How is this calculated? The weightage could be
altered to more accurately gauge an investor's appetite. I.e. only consider the last X investments, or cut off
investments after Y duration. Adding a decay could also further surpress an investor's average to prevent a
monopoly.

Ultimately, the proration logic is fair by default. Not much can be done mathematically. It is more practical
to influence the human behavior of our customers. From a business standpoint, we want investors to invest
as much as possible, especially the whales with the most funds. By handicapping the top investors, although
this may make the smaller investors happier because they won't be squeezed down as much, it might hurt our
biggest customers. In my opinion, the ideal solution is to direct investors - both big and small - to other less
saturated startups.